---
layout: post
title: UTCTF 2021 Write-up
date: 2021-03-15T00:00:00.000+10:30
authors:
- lachlan
- javad
categories:
- ctf
- write-ups
description: ''
header_img: ''

---
## Recur

In this challenge, we are given a single binary called recur, so like any good CTFgoer, we ran the program. On doing so, it would print _utflag{_ and then idle. Opening up Ghidra and analysing the binary, we located the main function and saw that it would get a character from an array called _flag_, run a function called _recurrence_, and then print a character. For reference, this is the following code:

    int recurrence(int param_1)
    {
      int iVar1;
      int iVar2;
      
      if (param_1 == 0) {
        iVar1 = 3;
      }
      else {
        if (param_1 == 1) {
          iVar1 = 5;
        }
        else {
          iVar1 = recurrence(param_1 + -1);
          iVar2 = recurrence(param_1 + -2);
          iVar1 = iVar2 * 3 + iVar1 * 2;
        }
      }
      return iVar1;
    }
    
    undefined8 main(void)
    {
      byte bVar1;
      byte bVar2;
      int local_1c;
      
      local_1c = 0;
      while (local_1c < 0x1c) {
        bVar1 = flag[local_1c];
        bVar2 = recurrence();
        putchar((int)(char)(bVar2 ^ bVar1));
        fflush(stdout);
        local_1c = local_1c + 1;
      }
      return 0;
    }

where

    int flag[] = {118, 113, 197, 169, 226, 34, 216, 181, 115, 241, 146, 40, 178, 191, 144, 90, 118, 119, 252, 166, 179, 33, 144, 218, 111, 181, 207, 56};

It's important to note that recurrence took a parameter however, the function call in the main function is not displaying one. Taking a look into the disassembly, we can see that the character value was being moved into the EAX preceded by

      IMUL EAX,EAX
      MOV EDI,EAX
      CALL recurrence

Thus we're squaring each character of the flag and moving the result into the EDI to be the first argument to recurrence.

Considering that the program was correctly printing the first few characters of the flag, it was likely that we needed to optimise the program. So rewriting the code above in python we get

## Small P Problems

The challenge description starts 'My buddies Whitfield and Martin were trying to share a secret key', so googling something like 'Whitfield Martin cipher' seems like a good place to begin. Immediately we get results for the [Diffie–Hellman key exchange](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Diffie%E2%80%93Hellman_key_exchange), which fortunately can be described in terms of `A`, `B`, `p`, `g`, and `s` (the value of the secret key we need).

Scripts to brute-force this secret key are easy to find on GitHub. We used [this DHAttack.py script](https://github.com/zhangpengpengpeng/Diffie-Hellman-Algorithm) to get the flag `utflag{53919}`, although there are some much faster alternatives. Try this script to get the flag yourself:

\`\`\`python

 #!/usr/bin/python3

# Based on github.com/DrMMZ/Attack-Diffie-Hellman

p = 69691
g = 1001
A = 17016
B = 47643

for x in range(1, p):  # or (g**x) % p == B
if (g**x) % p == A:
a = x

s = (B**a) % p  # or (A**b) % p

print(s) 

\`\`\`

## Various Vernacular

We're given the encrypted flag `wmysau{foeim_Tfusoli}` along with some additional encrypted text to help us 'Hkgxologflutleiaymt xgf Azutgkrftmtf ltmntf ERW wfr ELW wfmtk Rkweq'.

Some familiarity with common ciphers, along with the hint 'This is a substitution cipher', give us a pretty good direction to pursue so we decided to use [this online tool](https://www.boxentriq.com/code-breaking/cryptogram "Substitution Cipher Solver Tool") for brute-forcing the solution.

However, trying brute-forcing the text rendered nothing more decipherable than the initial text. Instead we look to the challenge title, where we find that the word vernacular refers to local languages or dialects. Perhaps the cipher text is in a different language? The hint 'The plaintext may not necessarily be in English' confirms this.

Some experimentation with different languages and google translates produces the string in German 'provisionsgeschmüte von mageordneten setzen cdu und csu unter druck'. In English, 'disregarding commissions from the ordered people put cdu and csu under pressure.' Looks like we found a valid substitution! Trying (using all English characters) on the encrypted flag, with attention to capitalisation, gave us `utflag{nicht_English}`.